CLAUDE.md (#13256)
organicmaps/organicmaps: CLAUDE.md

`[android]`, `[ios]`, `[qt]`, `[search]`, `[routing]`, `[generator]`, `[strings]`, `[styles]`, `[platform]`, `[storage]`, `[bookmarks]`, `[3party]`, `[docs]`

- Separate subject from body with a blank line; wrap body at 80 chars

> - Explain **what and why**, not how, and keep it brief/concise

Author: "brief/concise" are synonyms — a file that preaches brevity should apply it:

```suggestion
- Explain **what and why**, not how, and keep it brief
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> - Explain **what and why**, not how, and keep it brief/concise

Author: `brief/concise` is a doublet — both words say the same thing here. Just:

```
- Explain **what and why**, not how, and keep it brief
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> - Explain **what and why**, not how, and keep it brief/concise

Author: `brief/concise` is a pair of synonyms; one word carries it:

```suggestion
- Explain **what and why**, not how; keep it brief
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

## Pull requests
- Prefer PRs focused and small; split unrelated changes into separate PRs, or at least separate commits with clear messages
- Mention if LLM tools were used to generate code

> - Description must include: what changed, link to issue (`Fixes #NNN`), how it was tested, and be brief

Author: "and be brief" dangles off a list of required items, so it reads as a fourth item. Moving it to the subject makes it a property of the description:

```suggestion
- Description must be brief and include: what changed, link to issue (`Fixes #NNN`), how it was tested
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> - Description must include: what changed, link to issue (`Fixes #NNN`), how it was tested, and be brief

Author: `and be brief` is appended to an enumeration, so it reads as a fourth required item. Moving the qualifier before the list makes it unambiguous:

```suggestion
- Description must be brief and include: what changed, link to issue (`Fixes #NNN`), how it was tested
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> - Description must include: what changed, link to issue (`Fixes #NNN`), how it was tested, and be brief

Author: The new clause doesn't compose with the list — it reads as "must include … and be brief". Moving it to the front fixes the grammar and puts the constraint first:

```
- Description must be brief and include: what changed, link to issue (`Fixes #NNN`), how it was tested
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> - Description must include: what changed, link to issue (`Fixes #NNN`), how it was tested, and be brief

Author: Broken enumeration: `be brief` is not something a description can *include*.

```suggestion
- Description must be brief and include: what changed, link to the issue (`Fixes #NNN`), and how it was tested
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

- Verify auto-generated files are NOT modified by hand (styles, localizations, `classificator.txt`)
- Check that new strings go into translation files, not hardcoded
- Verify new map features have classifier tests in `generator/generator_tests/osm_type_test.cpp`

> - Proofread translations (if any) and suggest missing translations (if needed)

Author: `(if any)` and `(if needed)` are noise — every bullet in this list is already conditional. Worth pointing at the rules that already exist below, otherwise an agent proofreads without the glossary:

```suggestion
- Proofread translations and suggest missing ones, following the glossary in "When translating content from English"
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ## Code review and new code guidelines

Author: `## Code review and new code guidelines` sits directly under `## Code review guidelines` (L157). Two near-identical headings make it ambiguous which one an agent should follow, and both are loaded into every session, so the split buys nothing.

These three bullets are project invariants rather than review steps, so a distinct name reads better — e.g. `## Project conventions and invariants`. Alternatively drop the new heading entirely and append the bullets to L157's list (the comment-style one is better placed in `## Code Style`, see below).

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ## Code review and new code guidelines

Author: This heading overlaps with `## Code review guidelines` immediately above it, and nothing tells the reader which of the two a rule belongs to. None of the three bullets is review-specific either — they are project conventions that apply when writing code too.

Simplest fix is to drop the section and home each bullet where it is already in context:
- downloaded-files + fail-fast policy → `### C++ assertions, logging and exceptions` (line 62), which already states "ASSERT is debug-only, CHECK is always-on";
- the comments rule → `## Code Style`.

If keeping them together is preferred, a non-overlapping name such as `## Defensive coding policy` removes the ambiguity.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> ## Code review and new code guidelines

Author: This heading is nearly identical to `## Code review guidelines` directly above it, so an agent scanning headings cannot tell which one applies — and none of the three bullets is about reviewing. Simplification: drop the new section and place each bullet where it belongs:

* downloaded files + asserts → `## Code review and new code guidelines` renamed to something distinct, e.g. `## Project assumptions`, or appended to `## Main focus`
* code comments (line 179) → `## Code Style`, next to the rest of the code-writing rules

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

- Downloaded files integrity is either checked after they are downloaded, or relied as is, as the file came from the server.
  Any possible damage of downloaded files on disk is not in the OM scope, so it is perfectly fine for the app to crash because of corrupted data.

>   No need to harden the code for such cases.

Author: Three lines state the same rule three times, and the grammar slips ("Downloaded files integrity", "relied as is"). The actionable part — *don't add hardening* — is the last clause; leading with it makes the bullet self-evident:

```suggestion
- Trust downloaded files as is: either their integrity is verified on download, or they are used directly as received from the server.
  On-disk corruption is out of OM scope — crashing on corrupted data is acceptable, don't harden the code against it.
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

>   No need to harden the code for such cases.

Author: Grammar makes the rule hard to follow: missing possessive ("files integrity"), "relied as is" (should be "relied on"), "downloaded" repeated in the same clause, and the trailing "as the file came from the server" dangles.

```suggestion
- Downloaded files are either verified after download or trusted as-is, since they come from our servers.
  Corruption of downloaded files on disk is out of OM scope: it is fine for the app to crash on corrupted data.
  Do not harden the code for such cases.
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

>   No need to harden the code for such cases.

Author: Wording: "Downloaded files integrity" needs a possessive, "relied as is" needs "relied upon", "damage of … files" → "damage to", and "checked after they are downloaded" is tautological after "Downloaded files".

The first sentence is also hard to act on: it offers two branches (checked / trusted as is) without saying what decides between them. The actionable part is really just "don't add integrity checks", so one line covers it:

```
- Downloaded data is trusted: integrity is verified at download time (if at all), never afterwards.
  On-disk corruption is out of OM's scope — crashing on corrupted data is fine, don't harden code against it.
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

>   No need to harden the code for such cases.

Author: Grammar: `Downloaded files integrity` needs a possessive, `relied as is` needs `relied upon`, and `as the file came from the server` switches number and tense mid-sentence. Three lines also cost more than the rule is worth — one sentence says the same:

```suggestion
- Downloaded files are either verified on download or trusted as-is: on-disk corruption is out of OM scope, so crashing on corrupted data is fine and needs no hardening.
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

- OM extensively uses Debug builds with ASSERT statements to catch developers mistakes as soon as possible (fail-fast).
  Many of such asserts are intentionally removed from Release builds for performance reasons, to also allow fail-fast,

>   to detect/fix bugs faster/earlier.

Author: The rationale contradicts itself: removing asserts from Release doesn't "allow fail-fast", it removes the check. And the two trailing purpose clauses just restate the first sentence.

More importantly the bullet states a fact but never says what to *do* with it — the rule an agent needs is "don't compensate with Release-time defensive checks", which is what makes reviewers stop asking for null-guards around `ASSERT`s.

```suggestion
- OM relies on Debug builds with `ASSERT` to catch developer mistakes as early as possible (fail-fast).
  Asserts are intentionally compiled out of Release builds for performance — don't replace them with
  runtime checks or silent fallbacks. Use `CHECK` only where the condition must hold in Release too.
```

Also worth cross-linking from `### C++ assertions, logging and exceptions` (L73), which states the `ASSERT` vs `CHECK` mechanics but not this rationale.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

>   to detect/fix bugs faster/earlier.

Author: The second sentence contradicts itself: asserts are removed from Release *for performance* **and** *"to also allow fail-fast"* — but removing them is exactly what disables fail-fast in Release (`ASSERT` expands to `do {} while (false)` there, `libs/base/assert.hpp:149`).

It also restates line 63 without adding the rule an agent actually needs — when to pick `CHECK` over `ASSERT`. Also: "developers mistakes" → "developer mistakes", "Many of such" → "Many of these".

```suggestion
- OM relies on fail-fast: ASSERTs catch developer mistakes as early as possible in Debug builds.
  They are compiled out in Release for performance, so use CHECK when the condition must hold in Release too.
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

>   to detect/fix bugs faster/earlier.

Author: Typos: "developers mistakes" → "developer mistakes", "Many of such asserts" → "Many such asserts".

More substantively, `to also allow fail-fast, to detect/fix bugs faster/earlier` reads as a contradiction — asserts compiled out of Release cannot fail fast *in* Release — and it restates "as soon as possible" from the sentence before. If the intent is "don't compensate in Release for what an ASSERT already catches in Debug", saying that directly is both shorter and unambiguous:

```
- Fail fast: ASSERTs catch developer mistakes in Debug and are compiled out of Release for performance.
  Use CHECK only for invariants that must also hold in Release; don't add defensive fallbacks around what an ASSERT covers.
```

If the clause means something else, could you spell it out? As written it's the one line here an agent is likely to misread.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

>   to detect/fix bugs faster/earlier.

Author: Two issues:

1. **Inaccurate, and contradicts line 75 of this same file** (`ASSERT is debug-only, CHECK is always-on`). It is not *many* asserts — the whole `ASSERT*`/`VERIFY` family expands to a no-op outside `DEBUG` (`libs/base/assert.hpp:138-159`), while `CHECK*` is never removed. An agent reading both lines gets two different rules.
2. `removed from Release builds ... to also allow fail-fast` reads as self-contradictory: removing an assert is precisely what stops it from failing fast in Release.

```suggestion
- Fail fast: use ASSERT freely to catch developer mistakes in Debug, it is a no-op in Release and costs nothing there.
  Use CHECK when the condition must hold in Release too.
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> - Comments in the code should be brief and concise, only describing unobvious reasoning which may be unclear for developer from the first sight at the code.

Author: This is a style rule, not a review rule — `## Code Style` (L26) already owns naming, includes and formatting, and `docs/CODE_STYLE_GUIDE.md` has no comment guidance today, so this is the natural home.

Grammar: "unclear for developer from the first sight at the code" → "unclear to a developer at first glance"; "brief and concise" is again a synonym pair.

```suggestion
- Comments should be brief, describing only the non-obvious reasoning that isn't clear from the code at first glance
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> - Comments in the code should be brief and concise, only describing unobvious reasoning which may be unclear for developer from the first sight at the code.

Author: "unobvious reasoning which may be unclear for developer from the first sight at the code" is hard to parse, and "brief and concise" is again a synonym pair.

```suggestion
- Comments should be brief, explaining only the non-obvious reasoning that is not clear from the code itself.
```

Worth adding the corollary that keeps agents honest, since it is the failure mode this rule is meant to prevent: comments must describe the current code, never the state before the change.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

> - Comments in the code should be brief and concise, only describing unobvious reasoning which may be unclear for developer from the first sight at the code.

Author: Same doublet as L136 ("brief and concise"), plus "unclear for developer from the first sight at the code":

```
- Keep code comments brief: explain only non-obvious reasoning that isn't clear from the code itself
```

This is a code-style rule, not a review rule — it belongs under `## Code Style` (L26), where an agent writing code will actually look for it.

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_
